>> Brian Holt: So the first thing
we're gonna need is some sort of
internal data structure
to keep track of this.
I chose season array because
that's a good way to model it.
Something else that kind of just bares
mentioning before we move on as well,
is I'm teaching you the general
principles here, and
I'm teaching you in the simplest way
hopefully that you can understand it.
And I'm not teaching you the most
efficient ways of doing things right?
So if you were actually going to implement
these in production for your code base,
you'd probably go find more optimized
versions of these than I'm giving
you the training wheels version, not
necessarily the motorcycle version okay?
So with that being said,
once you understand these, going to the
optimized versions will be the next step.
It'll be something that
you'll be prepared to do.
Okay, so, this is a ES6 class, right?
They're new as of 2015 for JavaScripts.
You could put in here a constructor, which
I would imagine many people probably did,
which is a totally
acceptable way of doing it.
I am lazy, so I don't want to do that.
So I'm going to use what's
called class properties,
which are new to java script as well,
which I can just do like this, new array
>> Brian Holt: 100 and fill it with zeros.
So this is going to be creating something
on the instance of this
particular BloomFilter.
That's going to be _array which just
means, to me means private, right?
Underscore doesn't mean
anything particular.
It's just a convention in JavaScript that
if something is private to your array,
that you just put
an underscore in front of it.
There's a new spec coming
out where you could put #,
where it would actually be private.
I don't believe that works yet,
so just know that's coming.
Anyway, _array okay, so
now I have an array that's 100 long and
filled with 0s, cool?
Cool, okay,
then we're going to add an add function.
It's going to take in some sort of string.
>> Brian Holt: Let's move
that up a little bit.
And this particular thing is just
going to go through each one of
this._array[h1(string)] = 1.
And we're just gonna do that a couple
of times but with h2 and h3.
>> Brian Holt: And that's it,
we might return true or something there.
I don't know, whatever you
feel like doing, I don't care.
So [LAUGH] not the point.
Okay, and
then we're gonna have a contains function.
>> Brian Holt: That's
going to take in a string.
>> Brian Holt: Take in a string, and
it's just going to return to you is it
in the same spot in h1, h2, and
h3 for the same string, right?
So, the way I chose to do this,
which it's up to you how you choose
to do that, double exclamation point.
Right?
Which is going to basically coerce.
And if you want to find out more about
coercion, watch Kyle Simpson's stuff,
cuz he knows all about it.
Anyway, weird stuff.
Suffice to say, if something is truthy,
it will make it true.
If something is falsey,
it will make it false.
And then I'm just gonna check
this array [h1(string)].
I'm just gonna copy and paste that cuz
that's just a whole lot of characters.
>> Brian Holt: And,
>> Brian Holt: I will put
two here and h3 there.
Right so I'm asking is it one at the h1
spot, the h2 spot and the h3 spot.
Yeah.
Cool.
That's what that double and is.
Something that always bothers people
when I'm using this particular font,
this font is called fear of code,
and it has ligatures, right.
So these double ands
kind of mushed together,
same with these exclamation points.
The most obvious one, if I put,
that looks like an arrow, right?
But, in reality it's an equal space and
an angle bracket put together.
Congelateurs there are bunch
of folks that use them.
It makes my code more readable and
I've gotten so
used to it that I can't
separate myself from it.
Deal with it, I suppose.
Cool.
So, I guess we can run this and
see if it works.
>> Brian Holt: Maybe, and we passed.
Any questions?
Or I suppose, what questions do you have?
>> Brian Holt: No, I nailed it, cool.
Perfectly explained.
Okay,
>> Brian Holt: So that's bloom filters.
Hopefully you kind of see why
this data structure could be
potentially useful for you.
This was invented,
I believe it's like the 70s, right?
Just like everything that
I'm talking about today,
not invented any time recently.
What is cool though is
this is pretty simple.
It's not, I would judge that it
wasn't terribly difficult for
me to learn, which I think is really cool.
There are now more efficient ways
of doing something similar to this.
There are bloom filters that you
can like remove things from and
that are more efficient.
There's many flavors of this,
this just happens to be one
of the more simpler ones.
But there are similar data structures
that accomplish similar things in
more efficient ways.
If that's something you find yourself
in your projects trying to implement
do some research.
That's all I'm trying to say.
Cool, and again, the completed code
is always down here if you get stuck, if
you want to see how I personally did it.
That's why I have the second laptop up
here, so I don't forget how I did it.
[LAUGH] So please, again,
this is not a test, this is not cheating,
this is just learning.
So just make sure you're doing whatever
you need to do to learn the best.
>> Brian Holt: But you will fail the
course, I'm just telling you that there.
[LAUGH] Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Where is defined h1,
h2 used in array.
>> Brian Holt: Where is h1 defined?
Is that the question?
>> Speaker 2: I believe so.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
Well.
Let's talk about h1.
So, we have this thing here call,
this is the hashing function
that I wrote to just be.
Something really quick.
If you go in here to, settings.
Okay so this is the settings for
this particular code pin.
Here in the JavaScript I got
a bunch of stuff I'm including.
One of them is this XXhash.nin.js
this is just a library off of NPM.
You can NPM install XX-JS and
this will install this function.
It's just a fast hashing function
that I did not have to write, right?
That's all it is.
So that's where this gets defined.
They're just seed values, so
that the randomness is more spread out and
different.
And then this is just a bunch of
stuff to make it work, so trial and
error, that's how I figured it out.
[LAUGH] That's a good question, though.
Also if you look there, you can see,
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
this is all the stuff that's
being loaded for the Jasmine.
Same thing with the CSS,
it's been loaded for the Jasmine as well.
So that's where all of that came from.
>> Brian Holt: Since we're on
the wavelength of codepen things just so
you know, you can always look at
ViewCompileJS if you actually want to see
what the battle is compiling it to.
Sometimes it's helpful, usually not but
it's there if you want to take a look.
And then I'm obsessive about
using prettier on everything.
If you've watched my other
courses you're aware of that.
If you click Tidy JS,
it will tidy everything up for
you, using prettier, right?
This became a lot more readable than
my crazy stuff that I had before.
So, just be aware that
Tidy JS is up there.
It's really useful.
I would suggest it.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, good question.